start with today then there's an exam of
a dog we've got fitting here here it's
she's a three year old Staffordshire
Terrier and what we're gonna do is we're
gonna do a basic exam on a dog today
okay we'll start with her exam we'll
start on the teeth and again basically
we look at the teeth is there any tartar
any periodontal disease any problems
with chipped or cracked teeth those
things may suggest a problem we have
look in the mouth for any sores and he
drooling any problems like that at all
we feel the lymph nodes underneath in
the throat area any swelling anything
like that could suggest tonsillitis
cough anything of that sort we usually
go to the eyes checking again for any
redness any sores or any problems with
the lids if the owner has any particular
concerns usually again we will focus on
that as well next we check the ears
again if the owner has had a concern or
complaint about faces a dog shaking its
head or scratching at the ears you know
we will obviously go into that further
but it's a basic exam looking for any
redness swelling or discharge and as we
go from front to back again looking at
coat conditioned skin making sure that
the dog again looks in good health
now we palpate the abdomen generally we
are checking to see if there is anything
abnormal you can normally feel the
bladder kidneys liver if it is a
abnormally enlarged and again lift nodes
at the hind end so the exam typically is
quite brief the only thing that I mean
if an owner has a particular concern we
will focus on that aspect next we will
listen to the heart
now when we listen to the heart we're
normally listening for the rate the
rhythm and listening for any murmurs and
again if an owner has a particular
concern that a dog is very lethargic or
very tired we may want to focus on that
more the next thing typically is the
temperature is taken set and what we're
looking for here is obviously again is
there any fever any elevation and body
temperature that may suggest that
something is done it's just taken in the
ear and the reading takes only a few
seconds and that is normal normal
temperature and the dog is slightly
higher than the human it's thirty to
thirty nine Celsius now if everything
through the exam has been normal usually
at this point you will then go ahead
with the vaccines the vaccines are in an
adult dog required yearly in this case
for finning her vaccines are up to date
they're not due again until this fall